---
layout: post
title:  "E&S - Post Code School"
date:   2014-09-17 21:39:09
categories: employment featured
---

<p>
&nbsp;&nbsp;On June 16, about a month after graduating from Omaha Code School I took an internship
at Ervin & Smith. I needed experience in real world product development and solid feedback on the
abilities I now possess. What I did not expect was such a great working atmosphere and really friendly,
creative people. I was lucky enough to come in with Cara Heacock, another code school graduate, so
there was some familiarity with how we work together previously. We built tic-tac-toe together in
the first week of class. The experience has been great, I have had the opportunity to delve deeply
into Wordpress and continued to sharpen my Ruby experience. I am always surprised how quickly a
Rails project can come together. Even testing has become a fun problem solving experience for me
and a few months ago I definitely wouldn't have said&nbsp;that.
</p>


<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;Code School taught me how to make things work, Ervin & Smith has taught me that a product can
work well and still be ugly. The reasoning for small shortcuts or bloated code is usually a
by-product of a tight schedule. I have tried my best to avoid and learn from these errors by
creating a road-map that does not only take into account the place I will leave the product, but
where the next person will take it. I have been the sole rails developer on a few projects now, and
holding myself accountable to what the next developer will see has been in my forefront since I
began. I have enjoyed having the time to rebuild what is broken, or refactoring for solutions
I did not see clearly at first. When it comes down to the wire I know those opportunities will not
always exist but they have helped me learn a lot about my tendencies, short-comings and overall
design&nbsp;patterns.</p>
