---
layout: post
title:  "Preface"
date:   2014-03-01 21:39:09
categories: code school archive
---
I am writing this introduction a week into Omaha Code School. A belief I held was that writing
anything before getting in to the process would be anxious and very speculative. While not
inherently negative, it was just not a piece I could bring myself to write. Prior to Omaha Code
School I was in the Home Improvement business for about 6 years. It allowed me to use problem
solving and help create things that I could see were improving the projects I was working on. The
hope is that I can carry these skills of working with people and building projects into my current
endeavor which is Omaha Code School. There are several things I did not accurately predict. One is
the cohesiveness that a group of strangers can obtain after being forced to work together for five
days. I say forced but really should say allowed. Everyone I have worked with on projects this first
week have been very studious and excited about the assignments. There has been a time in each
project where we hit progress=0, but no one has wavered in trying to push through the problem.
Contrary to my initial belief we did not start the class with&nbsp;HelloWorld.rb.

The ease of the transition into Omaha Code School for me actually goes back to when I was an
extremely young kid. My mom kept accounting records on a c64 with a backup on a tape drive. The only
thing I knew at that time is once a month a magazine came and she could copy the code into the
machine and I would have a new game to play. Since that point in time I have always been toying,
tinkering and enjoying technology. After that c64 we went to x86 and I have hardly pushed a button
on a mac until Omaha Code School. When Sumeet said it was a requirement I was a bit disheartened. My
first thought was to try to find a laptop that would cooperate with some hackintosh modification. An
hour into this process is when I had a realization about myself and how I have always done things. I
really like my way. I don't know exactly why I prefer to do things in my own way, there are most
likely better ways to do things or more information I should be looking for to reach objectives. I
bought a used macbook and entered this phase of my life with the idea that I will not box myself in,
I will be open to doing things someone else's way, learn from the process, and then make a decision
about the new best way to do&nbsp;things.

The first week of Omaha Code School has been extremely interesting. I was that last person finished
on laptop setup day. Though it was a tedious task I do believe that Boxen was the easiest way to get
everyone on the same page. From there it was off to start working in Ruby. In the prework and still
at this moment I have a hard time getting used to everything Ruby does for me. My last code
experience was a Programming class in High School(2000ish) that was C and Basic, the first year they
switched from COBOL. Now I am all like variable.each HA ITERATION LOOP! That really sums up the
first week for me. Meeting awesome new people and trying to make sure I use the language
efficiently. I'll let you know my thoughts on my first Yoga session another&nbsp;time.
