---
layout: post
title:  "On Coffee and Time"
date:   2014-04-17 21:39:09
categories: code school archive
---

What can you do in six weeks? Previous to Code School I could provide you with an accurate estimate
of the work I could accomplish for a customer in a given time frame. In the same breath I could tell
you almost every tool I would use and the products I would suggest. Even the names of the people I
would assign to that job. Half way through Code School I can tell you none of that. I can not tell
you what tool I would use on the job assigned to me or how long it will take, I can not give you an
estimate of a monetary value that my work currently is allowed based upon economic conditions. One
thing I can tell you is I can make a website on the rails framework and have it functioning in black
and white in about an hour that has a flow and stores information in a database. I can handle the
majority of problems I run into fairly quickly with documentation and forum posts. It is amazing,
logical, and&nbsp;fun.

The above text has sat in a wordpress draft for two weeks, it is not a chore to write about the
experiences I have but it always seems to take longer than originally intended. At first I was not a
fan of the command line, it took some getting used to, the cold hard edges, the dry functionality,
the helpful yet unwelcomed error messages. Now, I don't want to be in a sleek GUI, I have grown fond
of this place. When Sumeet taught us simple deployment with Jekyll yesterday it sounded like a good
opportunity to use that draft text I wrote two weeks ago. Speaking of distractions from coding....
Let me tell you about <a href =
"http://project-ocs-wiki.herokuapp.com/articles/quad-copters">QuadCopter Club</a>. When I first saw
Brandon flying his around it was cool, then Andy got one and it was a bit cooler, then Matt got one
and it was cooler yet, so naturally I got one. It is probably the most fun I've gotten out of <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/Syma-Channel-2-4G-Quad-Copter/dp/B00906PKQ4"> $30</a> in quite some
time. It's rare to see other adults playing with remote controlled vehicles in my time before OCS
but it has become the norm. I think we'll have a few more participants before the end of&nbsp;class.

This week we met the devs from <a href="http://lyconic.com/">Lyconic</a>. It was a fun experience
and was an interesting perspective from a start-up working to take a customer's platform and develop
a tangible product custom tailored to their needs including support for all it's users. I have some
familiarity in the user end of a similar product used in the construction management industry and
can see exactly how difficult the end-user support role can be. This passed few weeks have taught me
how to survive on coffee, two squares and five hours of sleep. I would not want to run this schedule
forever but I do understand when deadlines come about and it's your name on the product sacrifices
have to be made. There was a time when a pot of coffee a day to one person seemed like overkill,
after 8 weeks of intense learning if I stay under ten cups it seems to be a light day. The second
class for <a href ="http://omahacodeschool.com">OCS</a> was just announced. The reality has begun to
sink in that someday soon I am not going to be flying quadcopters around a giant room without anyone
criticising the use of my time. While that is a bit sad, I think we are all becoming increasingly
eager to go out and see what we can&nbsp;do.

<a href ="http://marcgravell.blogspot.co.uk/2014/04/technical-debt-case-study-tags.html"> Technical
Debt</a>
